# Some useful D3 methods

Bookmark the [D3 API reference](https://github.com/mbostock/d3/wiki/API-Reference).

d3.**json**(*url*, *callback*))

Like jQuery.getJSON. Requests a URL and executes a callback on receiving a response. Returns an error if the returned resource is not valid JSON.

d3.**csv**(*url*, *callback*))

Requests a URL and executes a callback on receiving a response. Returns an error if the returned resource is not a valid CSV file.

d3.**select**(*selector*)

Behaves just like jQuery's *select* method. It searches for the specified selector string in the DOM and returns the selection, which can then be manipulated.

d3.**selectAll**(*selector*)

Searches for the specified selector string in the DOM and returns each occurrence of the selection, which can then each be manipulated in turn.

selection.**data**([*values*])

Takes an array of data and applies it to a selection. If multiple DOM elements are selected then the elements of the array are applied to each selection in turn.

selection.**append**(*name*)

Like jQuery. Given a selection, append an element with the given name. Returns the new element.

d3.**enter**()

Used in conjunction with `d3.data()`. If any elements in the data array are unmatched in the DOM selection, then the elements of the data array can be passed into newly-created elements.

e.g. `selection.data().enter().append(foo)`

selection.**attr**(*name*[, *value*])

Like jQuery. Given a selection, apply an attribute to it (with the given value). Returns the selection with the attribute added.

selection.**text**([*value*])

Like jQuery. Given a selection, add text to it.

selection.**html**([*value*])

Like jQuery. Given a selection, add HTML to it.

selection.**on**()

Given a selection, apply an event handler to it.

e.g. `d3.select("UK").on("mouseover", function() { foo() });`

Possible events include e.g. `mouseover`, `mouseout`, `click`.

selection.**style**(foo)

Given a selection, apply a style to it.

selection.**transition**()

Given a selection, apply a transition to it. 

selection.**duration**(*millisecs*)

Given a transition on a selection, apply a duration to it.

d3.geo.**path**(*feature*)

Part of [d3-geo-projection](https://github.com/d3/d3-geo-projection). Takes a *feature* (or some other geometry) and returns an SVG path element.

d3.geo.path(*feature*).**projection**(*projection*)

Part of [d3-geo-projection](https://github.com/d3/d3-geo-projection). Takes a projection function and applies it to each pair of spherical coordinates in some *feature* and returns Cartesian coordinates for insertion in a path.

d3.geo.**robinson**(*raw*) and friends

Part of [d3-geo-projection](https://github.com/d3/d3-geo-projection). Takes a raw set of coordinates as input and returns coordinates suitable for adding to an SVG path element. Each different projection (Robinson, Mercator, albers, etc.) applies a different function to the input coordinates.

projection.**translate**([*point*])

Given a projection, takes pixel coordinates (represented as a two-element array) and places the centre of the projection at that point relative to the SVG element. 

projection.**scale**([*scale*])

Given a projection, takes pixel coordinates and scales them. Use this for making your map scale bigger or smaller.

d3.scale.**linear**(*x*) also d3.scale().**ordinal**(*x*)

Takes some value in an input domain and returns the corresponding value in the output range.

linear.**domain**([*numbers*])

Defines the input domain for a scale.

linear.**range**([*values*])

Defines the output range for a scale.

Usage: `d3.scale.linear(foo).domain(bar).range(baz)`

d3.**format**(*specifier*)

Takes a format definition and returns a format functionthat takes a number as an argument and returns a formatted output string.

For example, d3.format("$,2") returns a format that can be applied to the number `1200` to produce the string "$1,200.00".
 


